README.md, before:

# WoeUSB

<https://github.com/WoeUSB/WoeUSB>

A Microsoft Windows® USB installation media preparer for GNU+Linux

[![Continuous Integration(CI) Status Badge](https://cloud.drone.io/api/badges/WoeUSB/WoeUSB/status.svg "Continuous Integration(CI) Status")](https://cloud.drone.io/WoeUSB/WoeUSB)

## Features

* Support Legacy PC/UEFI booting
* Support FAT32 and NTFS filesystems
* Support using physical installation disc or disk image as source

## Supported Windows® installation images

* Windows Vista and later
* Any language or edition variants
* Windows PE

> **NOTE:** Non official installation media may be supported, but not guaranteed

## Dependencies

The following are the dependencies that WoeUSB requires, in one way or another:

### Required

WoeUSB will not be able to function without these software installed in their proper locations:

* [GNU Bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/)  
  For interpreting and executing the program logic  
  _Requires >= 4.3_
* [The GNU Core Utilities(Coreutils)](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/)  
  For common Unix utilities necessary for basic operations
* [util-linux](https://github.com/karelzak/util-linux)  
  For low-level utilities interacting with storage devices, etc
* [GNU Grep](https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/) and [Gawk](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/)  
  For parsing necessary information out from a command output
* [The GNU Find Utilities](https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/)  
  For enumerating files required for operation
* [GNU GRUB](https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/)  
  For installing the bootstrap code used in a Legacy PC boot  
  We specifically requires modules of the i386-pc architecture, for Debian-based distributions these are provided via the grub-pc-bin package
* [GNU Parted](https://www.gnu.org/software/parted/)  
  For manipulating disk partition table and partitions
* [GNU Wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/)  
  For acquiring [Pete Batard](https://pete.akeo.ie/)'s [UEFI:NTFS](https://github.com/pbatard/uefi-ntfs) UEFI bootloader
* [dosfstools](https://github.com/dosfstools/dosfstools)  
  For creating FAT filesystem in `--device` creation method
* [NTFS-3G](https://www.tuxera.com/community/open-source-ntfs-3g/)  
  For creating NTFS filesystem in `--device` creation method

### Optional

Without the following dependencies WoeUSB will still able to run, but some functionalities will be unavailable:

* [p7zip](https://sourceforge.net/projects/p7zip/)  
  For workaround the problem where the Windows 7 installation media doesn't ship their UEFI bootloader in the proper location
* [Pete Batard](https://pete.akeo.ie/)'s [UEFI:NTFS](https://github.com/pbatard/uefi-ntfs) UEFI bootloader  
  For supporting NTFS filesystems in the target USB key

## Installation

To be addressed.  For now refer [Run from source](#run-from-source).

## Run from source

WoeUSB is a program that can be run without installation(excluding its [dependencies](#dependencies)):

1. Download the program(woeusb-N.N.N.bash) from [the Releases page](https://github.com/WoeUSB/WoeUSB/releases)
1. Fix the missing executable file permission (`chmod +x path/to/woeusb-N.N.N.bash`)
1. Launch a terminal application and run the program via the appropriate path(`sudo path/to/woeusb-N.N.N.bash --help`)

## License

GPL-3.0+

## Credits

WoeUSB is a fork of [Congelli501's WinUSB project](http://en.congelli.eu/prog_info_winusb.html).

Commit message:

docs: Improve availability of distro-specific dependency info
Fixes #27.

Signed-off-by: 林博仁(Buo-ren, Lin) <Buo.Ren.Lin@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# WoeUSB

<https://github.com/WoeUSB/WoeUSB>

A Microsoft Windows® USB installation media preparer for GNU+Linux

[![Continuous Integration(CI) Status Badge](https://cloud.drone.io/api/badges/WoeUSB/WoeUSB/status.svg "Continuous Integration(CI) Status")](https://cloud.drone.io/WoeUSB/WoeUSB)

## Features

* Support Legacy PC/UEFI booting
* Support FAT32 and NTFS filesystems
* Support using physical installation disc or disk image as source

## Supported Windows® installation images

* Windows Vista and later
* Any language or edition variants
* Windows PE

> **NOTE:** Non official installation media may be supported, but not guaranteed

## Dependencies

The following are the dependencies that WoeUSB requires, in one way or another.  Refer [the wiki](https://github.com/WoeUSB/WoeUSB/wiki/Dependencies) for distro-specific information.

### Required

WoeUSB will not be able to function without these software installed in their proper locations:

* [GNU Bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/)  
  For interpreting and executing the program logic  
  _Requires >= 4.3_
* [The GNU Core Utilities(Coreutils)](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/)  
  For common Unix utilities necessary for basic operations
* [util-linux](https://github.com/karelzak/util-linux)  
  For low-level utilities interacting with storage devices, etc
* [GNU Grep](https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/) and [Gawk](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/)  
  For parsing necessary information out from a command output
* [The GNU Find Utilities](https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/)  
  For enumerating files required for operation
* [GNU GRUB](https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/)  
  For installing the bootstrap code used in a Legacy PC boot  
  We specifically requires modules of the i386-pc architecture, for Debian-based distributions these are provided via the grub-pc-bin package
* [GNU Parted](https://www.gnu.org/software/parted/)  
  For manipulating disk partition table and partitions
* [GNU Wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/)  
  For acquiring [Pete Batard](https://pete.akeo.ie/)'s [UEFI:NTFS](https://github.com/pbatard/uefi-ntfs) UEFI bootloader
* [dosfstools](https://github.com/dosfstools/dosfstools)  
  For creating FAT filesystem in `--device` creation method
* [NTFS-3G](https://www.tuxera.com/community/open-source-ntfs-3g/)  
  For creating NTFS filesystem in `--device` creation method

### Optional

Without the following dependencies WoeUSB will still able to run, but some functionalities will be unavailable:

* [p7zip](https://sourceforge.net/projects/p7zip/)  
  For workaround the problem where the Windows 7 installation media doesn't ship their UEFI bootloader in the proper location
* [Pete Batard](https://pete.akeo.ie/)'s [UEFI:NTFS](https://github.com/pbatard/uefi-ntfs) UEFI bootloader  
  For supporting NTFS filesystems in the target USB key

## Installation

To be addressed.  For now refer [Run from source](#run-from-source).

## Run from source

WoeUSB is a program that can be run without installation(excluding its [dependencies](#dependencies)):

1. Download the program(woeusb-N.N.N.bash) from [the Releases page](https://github.com/WoeUSB/WoeUSB/releases)
1. Fix the missing executable file permission (`chmod +x path/to/woeusb-N.N.N.bash`)
1. Launch a terminal application and run the program via the appropriate path(`sudo path/to/woeusb-N.N.N.bash --help`)

## License

GPL-3.0+

## Credits

WoeUSB is a fork of [Congelli501's WinUSB project](http://en.congelli.eu/prog_info_winusb.html).
